3.1 Introduction

"Sizing" is the most important calculation in aircraft design-more so than
drag, or stress, or even cost (well, maybe not cost). Sizing literally determines
the size of the aircraft, specifically the weight that the aircraft must possess to
perform its intended mission carrying its intended payload.
To the rest of the aircraft community-pilots, detail design engineers, mech-
anics, military officers-our process of aircraft sizing seems backwards. Most
people would assume that we draw a new aircraft design, and then determine
how far it goes. We do it the other way around. We know how far it goes-it
goes as far as the requirements say it goes. What we do not know, and will
find out by calculation, is how big to draw it. That process is called sizing.
There are many levels of aircraft sizing procedure. The simplest level just adopts
past history. For example, if you need an immediate estimate of the takeoff weight
of an airplane to replace the Air Force F-15 fighter, use 44,500 lb. That is the design
weight of the F-15 and is probably a good number to start with.
To get the "right" answer takes several years, many people, and lots of money.
Design requirements must be rigorously analyzed and then used to develop a
number of candidate designs, each of which must be designed, analyzed, sized,
optimized, and redesigned any number of times. The best of our candidates,
sized to its minimum weight to perform the required mission, yields the right
answer-we presume.
Analysis techniques include all manner of computer code as well as corre-
lations to wind-tunnel and other tests. Even with this extreme level of design
sophistication, the actual airplane when flown will never exactly match
predictions.
In between these extremes of sizing procedure lie the methods used for most
conceptual design activities. As an introduction to the design process, this chapter
presents a quick sizing method, which will allow you to estimate required takeoff
weight from a conceptual sketch and a sizing mission.
The sizing method presented in this chapter is most accurate when used for
missions that do not include any combat or payload drops. Although admittedly
simplified, this method introduces all of the essential features of the most soph-
isticated sizing methods used by the major aerospace manufacturers. In a later
chapter, the concepts introduced here will be expanded to a sizing method
capable of handling all types of missions and with greater accuracy.
